# Automatc Book Categorization Tag Generator Frontend (React)

## Overview

This React application serves as the frontend interface for the **ABC Tag Generator API**. It allows users to input book-related information and receive a predicted category generated by a machine learning model hosted behind a secure API.

The frontend communicates with an express API which contains the logic to call on the machine learning API and display predicted category values and probabilities based on the user's query.

---

## Features

- User-friendly form for book information input
- Sends requests to a protected backend API
- Displays predicted book category results
- Uses environment variables for API configuration
- Designed to be lightweight and deployable on free hosting platforms

---

## Tech Stack

- **React.js**
- **Typescript**
- **Fetch API** for HTTP requests
- **Environment Variables** for API configuration

Setup Tooling:
- Create React App
-  Netlify (deployment env)

---

## Project Structure

```
react-frontend/
├── src/
│   ├── components/     # resuable components for page(s)
│   ├── AppRouter/      # application routing directory
|   ├── pages/          # navigatable application pages
|   ├── utils/          # helpers and constants
│   ├── index.tsx       # root file - loads react maintained as Single Page Application (SPA)
│   └── App.css         # repository's styling
├── public/             # contains all static files in the application
|   └── imgs            # imgs seen throughout application
├── .env                # env file to hide endpoints(security)
├── package.json        # imported files and application run/build scripts
└── README.md           # Instruction guide to React folder
```



# Getting Started with Create React App

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm start`

Runs the app in the development mode.\
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.\
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.\
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.\
Your app is ready to be deployed!

See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.

### `npm run eject`

**Note: this is a one-way operation. Once you `eject`, you can’t go back!**

If you aren’t satisfied with the build tool and configuration choices, you can `eject` at any time. This command will remove the single build dependency from your project.

Instead, it will copy all the configuration files and the transitive dependencies (webpack, Babel, ESLint, etc) right into your project so you have full control over them. All of the commands except `eject` will still work, but they will point to the copied scripts so you can tweak them. At this point you’re on your own.

You don’t have to ever use `eject`. The curated feature set is suitable for small and middle deployments, and you shouldn’t feel obligated to use this feature. However we understand that this tool wouldn’t be useful if you couldn’t customize it when you are ready for it.

## Learn More

You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started).

To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).
